# AI for filtering results notifications

**Summary**: {Describe the issue you’re addressing, such as the context and
problem statement. You can write a few sentences, akin to an abstract, or akin
to an illustrative story, or akin to any other short introduction that helps
your readers understand your purpose.}

**Status**: {WIP | RFC | Accepted | Rejected | Replaced by X | … }

**Date**: {YYYY-MM-DD when the decision was last updated.}

**Governance**: {Describe any governance involved in the decision.}

## Drivers

{What are factors that are motivating this? Describe each factors that are
driving this decision right now. You can explain as many drivers as you wish, to
help your readers understand what you're doing. Aim to include the context to
the situation, such as the current state, the future state that you want, any
relevant background history, etc., that can help your readers understand what
you're doing.}

* {Decision driver 1, e.g., a force, facing concern, …}

* {Decision driver 2, e.g., a force, facing concern, …}

* {Decision driver 2, e.g., a force, facing concern, …}

## Options

{What options are you considering? List each option, along with a description.
Stick to just the facts in this section, because the next section is for pros
and cons. You can List as many options as you wish, to help your readers
understand what you're doing.}

### {Option 1 title}

{Describe this option, such as with a summary, facts, etc.}

### {Option 2 title}

{Describe this option, such as with a summary, facts, etc.}

### {Option 3: title}

{Describe this option, such as with a summary, facts, etc.}

## Options Pros & Cons

### {Option 1 title…}

{Explain what's good and/or bad and/or neutral about this option. You can add as
many points as you want, to help readers understand. You can provide examples if
you want. You can point to more information if you want. You can write anything
that can help your readers understand what you're doing.}

* Pro: {describe e.g. positive expectation, good impact, improvement, …}

* Con: {describe e.g. negative expectation, bad impact, impairment, …}

* Other: {describe e.g. neutral expectation, balanced impact, tradeoffs, …}

### {Option 2 title…}

{Explain what's good and/or bad and/or neutral about this option. You can add as
many points as you want, to help readers understand. You can provide examples if
you want. You can point to more information if you want. You can write anything
that can help your readers understand what you're doing.}

* Pro: {describe e.g. positive expectation, good impact, improvement, …}

* Con: {describe e.g. negative expectation, bad impact, impairment, …}

* Other: {describe e.g. neutral expectation, balanced impact, tradeoffs, …}

### {Option 3 title…}

{Explain what's good and/or bad and/or neutral about this option. You can add as
many points as you want, to help readers understand. You can provide examples if
you want. You can point to more information if you want. You can write anything
that can help your readers understand what you're doing.}

* Pro: {describe e.g. positive expectation, good impact, improvement, …}

* Con: {describe e.g. negative expectation, bad impact, impairment, …}

* Other: {describe e.g. neutral expectation, balanced impact, tradeoffs, …}

## Recommendation - Decision Outcome

{Describe the chosen option and justification}.

### Consequences

{This section is optional. Explain what's good and/or neutral and/or bad about
this work. You can add as many points as you want, to help readers understand.}

* Pro: {describe e.g. positive expectation, good impact, improvement, …}

* Con: {describe e.g. negative expectation, bad impact, impairment, …}

* Other: {describe e.g. neutral expectation, balanced impact, tradeoffs, …}

### Confirmation

{This section is optional. Describe how you intend to confirm the implementation
of/compliance with this decision. For example, metrics, checklists, scorecards,
SMART criteria, objective and key results (OKRs), key performance indicators
(KPIs), critical success factors (CSF), system quality attributes (SQAs), etc.
You can add as many points as you want, to help readers understand.}

## More Information

{This section is optional. You might want to provide additional
evidence/confidence for the decision outcome here and/or document the team
agreement on the decision and/or define when/how this decision the decision
should be realised and if/when it should be re-visited. Links to other decisions
and resources might appear here as well.}
